README.md, before:

# Into the Forest

Debug Mode can be trigged with the ';' button on keyboard

## Development

### _[My First Game](https://tsv-stacks.github.io/my-first-game/)_

I found a short tutorial that showed me how to create a basic version of the "dinosaur" Google Chrome game. The game was an endless runner, with oncoming blocks that I had to jump over. It was a simple game, but it was a proof of concept that games could be built with JavaScript.

### _[My Second Game](https://arcade-game-runner.netlify.app/)_

With this new confidence and knowledge, I began working on a more advanced and visually appealing game. I found a game development course online that helped me create this new game, which was built with vanilla JavaScript, CSS, HTML5, and the Canvas API.

I wanted to make this game feel unique and rather than copy someones code or code along I decided to use assets from itch.io (a platform for game developers to share and sell their artwork and game assets). Using these assets presented me with new challenges, as I had to understand the logic behind the code in order to make necessary amendments and add my own features, such as scores, game over, and restart.

Unfortunately, due to time constraints, I was not able to fully flesh out the game as much as I would have liked. There were multiple features and functionalities missing that would have made it a complete game.

### _[Into the Forest](https://into-the-forest.netlify.app/)_

I wanted to build on the success of my previous two games and take the lessons I learned from building a local cooperative two-player fighting game to create the game I had envisioned, but was unable to do so due to time constraints.

This game was built over a period of six weeks and builds on everything I created in the second game. Players and enemies have more animations, buttons control the game, UI sounds, attacking sounds, hitboxes and attacks for both player and enemies. Spawning enemies is no longer random, there is a debug mode, and many more tweaks and adjustments that I hope make this game more enjoyable and fun to play than the last.

## Credit

Artwork created by Eder Muniz

https://edermunizz.itch.io/free-pixel-art-forest

Player Character created by rvros

https://rvros.itch.io/animated-pixel-hero

Enemies created by LuizMelo

https://luizmelo.itch.io/monsters-creatures-fantasy

UI Sounds created by Ellr

https://ellr.itch.io/universal-ui-soundpack

## To Do

- [ ] way to chain attacks
- [x] attack on space bar key
- [x] air vs ground attack
- [x] slam attack
- [ ] roll (double-tap down button)
- [ ] walking with sword out animation
- [ ] getting up after slide animation priority
- [x] game start with character on idle
- [x] hit animation
- [x] enemy death animation
- [x] player death animation
- [x] randomise animations / movements for enemies
- [x] make enemies attack when in range
- [x] ground enemies attack once or have delay
- [x] sword attack sounds
- [x] slam attack sound
- [x] define hitboxes for player attacks
- [x] player attack detection
- [x] Game Over screen
- [x] game start screen
- [x] collision animation
- [x] change debug mode key binding
- [x] Find alternate way to add svg icons and use js to update dynamically
- [x] 'i' button with controls
- [x] increase difficulty as score increases

## Future Features

- [x] Pause game toggle
- [ ] Game Music
- [x] Mute button
- [x] UI Sounds
- [ ] Background music
- [ ] Mushroom attacks continously in range but with big cooldown

Commit message:

Stopped all hit detection and collision detection when player is out of lives

README.md, after:

# Into the Forest

Debug Mode can be trigged with the ';' button on keyboard

## Development

### _[My First Game](https://tsv-stacks.github.io/my-first-game/)_

I found a short tutorial that showed me how to create a basic version of the "dinosaur" Google Chrome game. The game was an endless runner, with oncoming blocks that I had to jump over. It was a simple game, but it was a proof of concept that games could be built with JavaScript.

### _[My Second Game](https://arcade-game-runner.netlify.app/)_

With this new confidence and knowledge, I began working on a more advanced and visually appealing game. I found a game development course online that helped me create this new game, which was built with vanilla JavaScript, CSS, HTML5, and the Canvas API.

I wanted to make this game feel unique and rather than copy someones code or code along I decided to use assets from itch.io (a platform for game developers to share and sell their artwork and game assets). Using these assets presented me with new challenges, as I had to understand the logic behind the code in order to make necessary amendments and add my own features, such as scores, game over, and restart.

Unfortunately, due to time constraints, I was not able to fully flesh out the game as much as I would have liked. There were multiple features and functionalities missing that would have made it a complete game.

### _[Into the Forest](https://into-the-forest.netlify.app/)_

I wanted to build on the success of my previous two games and take the lessons I learned from building a local cooperative two-player fighting game to create the game I had envisioned, but was unable to do so due to time constraints.

This game was built over a period of six weeks and builds on everything I created in the second game. Players and enemies have more animations, buttons control the game, UI sounds, attacking sounds, hitboxes and attacks for both player and enemies. Spawning enemies is no longer random, there is a debug mode, and many more tweaks and adjustments that I hope make this game more enjoyable and fun to play than the last.

## Credits

- Artwork created by [Eder Muniz](https://edermunizz.itch.io/free-pixel-art-forest)
- Player Character created by [rvros](https://rvros.itch.io/animated-pixel-hero)
- Enemies created by [LuizMelo](https://luizmelo.itch.io/monsters-creatures-fantasy)
- UI Sounds created by [Ellr](https://ellr.itch.io/universal-ui-soundpack)

## To Do

- [ ] way to chain attacks
- [x] attack on space bar key
- [x] air vs ground attack
- [x] slam attack
- [ ] roll (double-tap down button)
- [ ] walking with sword out animation
- [ ] getting up after slide animation priority
- [x] game start with character on idle
- [x] hit animation
- [x] enemy death animation
- [x] player death animation
- [x] randomise animations / movements for enemies
- [x] make enemies attack when in range
- [x] ground enemies attack once or have delay
- [x] sword attack sounds
- [x] slam attack sound
- [x] define hitboxes for player attacks
- [x] player attack detection
- [x] Game Over screen
- [x] game start screen
- [x] collision animation
- [x] change debug mode key binding
- [x] Find alternate way to add svg icons and use js to update dynamically
- [x] 'i' button with controls
- [x] increase difficulty as score increases
- [x] Stop all hit detection and collision detection when player is dead

## Future Features

- [x] Pause game toggle
- [ ] Game Music
- [x] Mute button
- [x] UI Sounds
- [ ] Background music
- [ ] Mushroom attacks continously in range but with big cooldown
